Akbar once said to his courtiers, “I think that my grandson, Khurram is a beautiful child. What do you all think?” 

The courtiers wanted to please Akbar, so they all said, “Your Highness, Prince Khurram is the most beautiful child.” 

Birbal kept sitting quietly. 

Akbar asked him, “What is the matter Birbal? You don’t seem to agree with me and the others in the court. Don’t you find my Khurram to be the most beautiful child?” 

Birbal stood up and bowed before Akbar and said, “I think it is very difficult to test what is beautiful and what is not. There is no real test for beauty.” 

Akbar felt bad and said, “No Birbal, do not agree with you. A rose is beautiful and a crow ugly to all.” 

Wanting to prove Birbal wrong, Akbar then said to all the courtiers, “I order each of you to bring a child each to find the most beautiful child of all.” The next day, all the courtiers, except Birbal, brought a child each. 

After looking at all the children, Akbar said, “I still think that my grandson, Khurram is the best looking.” 

Akbar asked Birbal, “Why have you not brought a child, Birbal?” 

“I could not find any child who was perfect,” said Birbal. 

Akbar asked, “Birbal, you still don’t agree that my Khurram is the most handsome out of all the children?” 

“Please give me some time. I will have to search for one,” said Birbal. 

“As you wish, Birbal,” Akbar replied. 

The next day, Birbal said, “Your Majesty, I have at last found the most beautiful child in Agra, but the mother will not let the child come here because she loves the child a lot.” 

Akbar said, “We will go to her house and see the child there.” 

Akbar ordered the courtiers to accompany him to see the child. Everyone quickly got ready to leave, for they all were eager to see the most beautiful child, as Birbal had claimed. Then they started walking, with Birbal leading the way. 

They soon reached the slums where the poor people lived. 

Then Birbal stopped and said, “This is where the child lives. We will wait here for some time.” 

In a short while, a child crawled out from a hut. The courtiers looked at Birbal with surprise because the child was not beautiful at all. Rather the child was the ugliest of all the children the courtiers had brought, and this made Akbar angry. 

Akbar shouted, “Birbal! What kind of a joke is this? The child is ugly.” 

Birbal replied patiently, “Just wait a While, Please.”They kept standing for some time watching the child playing. Suddenly, the child fell and started crying. 

A woman came running out of the hut and said, “Oh my dear child, my poor darling, are you hurt?”

The child continued crying and the woman spoke to the child, “Hush, my beautiful Child. Don’t cry. You are the apple of my eye. No one is as lovely as you are. I love you more than anything else.” 

A courtier exclaimed, “Oh Lord! How can she call this ugly child beautiful?” 

The mother of the child heard this and she shouted, “Are you speaking about my child?” The courtier replied “We are speaking the truth. Your child is ugly.” 

The mother screamed, “How dare you talk about my child like this?” 

“Go and search for the whole world and you will not find a child more beautiful than mine. Go away from here and dare not speak like that about my child.” 

Akbar indicated his courtiers to leave, He turned to Birbal and said, “You have proved your point, Birbal. You have proved that everyone thinks that their child is the most beautiful.” 

Birbal smiled and said, “Not only child, Your Majesty, even grandchild!” 

Akbar started laughing and said, “Birbal you are right. I find Khurram to be the most beautiful for he is my own. Every parent finds his child to be the most beautiful.”

