Ali came running to the house of Birbal. He was a servant who worked for the Emperor and he looked very worried. 

He shouted, “Birbal, My Lord, please save me or the Emperor will have me killed. Oh! Please save me, Sir!”Birbal said, “Ali, tell me what is the problem and I will try to help you.” 

The servant said, “Some time back, a holy man had gifted a parrot to the Emperor. The Emperor entrusted me with looking after the parrot. He had warned that anyone who informed him about the parrot’s death would be sentenced to death. Alas! the parrot is dead.” 

“How did it die?” asked Birbal. 

Ali said, ” I don’t know, Sir. I looked after it very well but when I got up in the morning, it was already dead.” 

Birbal promised, “Ali, I will see to it that you are not hanged for this.” 

Birbal went to Akbar and said, “Your Majesty, do you remember the parrot a holy man had given you?” 

Akbar said, “Of course, Birbal. I do remember. I told my trusted servant, Ali to look after the parrot. But why are you asking me about the parrot?” 

Birbal said, “Oh! Your Majesty. That parrot is great. It is holy too.” 

Surprised, Akbar asked, “Birbal, how can a parrot be holy and great?” 

Birbal said, “Yes, My Lord, The parrot is lying in a state of meditation. It is thinking and not doing anything else.” 

Akbar said, “I want to see that parrot at once.”They all walked to Ali’s house where the parrot was lying motionless. 

Akbar looked at it and said, “What foolishness is this Birbal? The parrot is not thinking. It is dead, isn’t it?”Birbal bowed, “Please forgive me for this, My Lord. I had seen that the parrot was dead but I was afraid.” 

Akbar said, “Birbal! Afraid! Why?” 

Birbal said, “My Lord. You had said that the person who gave the news of the parrot’s death would be sentenced to death. I did this just to save my life. Ali was also very frightened.” 

Akbar said, “Now I remember what I had said. Don’t worry. Nobody will be sentenced to death for this. Call Ali.” 

Ali came and bowed in front of Akbar saying, “My Lord. I looked after the parrot well. I don’t know how it died. I am very sorry but please trust me.” 

Akbar forgave him saying, “Ali, it does not matter. The parrot must have died a natural death. I know that I can trust you.” 

When Ali found Birbal alone, Ali said, “Oh, My Lord! Thank you so much. You have saved my life. Only you could have saved me. You are so clever and intelligent. God bless you, Sir.” 