Persia was a country far away from Agra. People who had been to Agra, told the Shah of Persia, many stories about the great Emperor Akbar and his minister, Birbal.

They all praised the witty and clever Birbal and his ever-ready answers. 

The Shah of Persia was eager to meet Birbal and test him to see if he was clever.So the Shah sent a man to invite Birbal to Persia. 

As Persia was far from Agra, the messenger took many months to reach Akbar’s court. On reaching, he conveyed the Shah’s invitation to Birbal. 

Birbal took permission from Emperor Akbar and set off for Persia along with the messenger. 

They reached Persia after a long journey and Birbal was asked to take some rest. The next day he was invited to meet the Shah. 

In court, he saw a strange scene. 

There were five people dressed in similar clothes, all like kings. They all sat on the same kind of thrones and they all behaved in the same manner. 

The man with Birbal said, “Go and meet the Shah of Persia.” 

Birbal knew that he had to bow before the Shah and offer his respects but he had never seen the Shah before. How could he recognize the Shah as all the five men were dressed alike? 

Birbal looked at the five men sitting on the thrones, from right to left and then left to right, again and again. 

Then he went in front of one of them and greeted, “Oh! Great Shah of Persia! Emperor Akbar sends his regards and gifts for you Your Highness. Have I guessed correctly that out of the five, you are the Shah of Persia?”“Yes Birbal, you have guessed correctly. I did this to test you. You are clever. I am the real Shah of Persia. Welcome to Persia. But tell me how did you recognize me?” 

Birbal smiled and said, “Your Majesty. 

It was quite simple. When I was looking at you, all these other four men looked at you to see your reaction as the subjects always look up to their king for everything. They looked at you wondering as to what you were thinking. But you were not looking at them. You were looking straight at me. So I knew that you are the real Shah of Persia.” 

“Birbal, you are very clever,” said the Shah of Persia.”I am so glad to meet you. Now I know why everyone always praises you. Well done Birbal.” 

The Shah of Persia then honored Birbal with the title,’Ocean of Intelligence’, for being so clever and also presented him many gifts when Birbal returned to Akbar’s court. 