The clever and kind Birbal was liked a lot by most of the people in Akbar’s court. But he also had some enemies. Two jealous courtiers Went to the royal barber and said, “We have a plan. If you help us, we will give you a lot of money.” 

The barber was a greedy man so he agreed to do what the two men wanted. The next day, the barber went to Emperor Akbar as planned. 

He said to Akbar, “Your Majesty, wonder how your ancestors are. Don’t you ever worry about them? They must be angry with you for not thinking about them. 

“My ancestors are dead and in heaven and I am alive. How can I find out how they are?” asked Akbar. 

The barber said, “Your Majesty, you can send someone from here to find out about their well being.” 

“But how can I send anyone to heaven?” asked Akbar. 

The barber said, “Your Majesty, get a thousand bundles of hay piled up in an open field. Then a person can stand on the pile of hay and the hay be set on fire. The man will go straight to heaven with the smoke.” 

“But whom can I send?” asked Akbar, beginning to sense something fishy. 

“Birbal of course, Your Majesty. He is the cleverest of us all and will do the best job,” said the barber. 

Akbar knew that Birbal had some enemies but he trusted Birbal to find a solution to this problem too. 

So Akbar called Birbal to the court and said, “Birbal, you have to go to heaven to see if my ancestors need anything.” 

Birbal said, “This is an excellent idea. You have thought well, Your Majesty.” 

“No Birbal, this is the idea of my clever barber,” said Akbar.Birbal understood and decided to teach the barber lesson. 

Birbal said, “Your Majesty, I will certainly go to heaven. But could I go after some days because I have a few important matters to settle?” 

“Sure Birbal. You finish your work and go after a week,” said Akbar. 

Akbar ordered for a thousand bundles of hay to be collected on a field, which would be burnt to send Birbal to heaven. Akbar chose a field which was near Birbal’s house. 

Birbal asked some trusted men to dig a secret tunnel under the ground from the place where the hay was kept to his house, within seven days. 

On the fixed day, people gathered to see Birbal go to heaven. 

Birbal went and stood on the pile of hay. As the hay was put on fire, Birbal quickly slipped into the tunnel under the hay and ran home safely. 

For six months, he hid in his house and did not meet anyone. He let his hair and beard grow. 

His enemies rejoiced for they were happy to get rid of the clever Birbal. 

After six months, Birbal left his house and went to the Emperor’s court. 

Akbar was very happy to have Birbal back safe and sound. “Tell me, how are they all? Are they comfortable in heaven?” asked Akbar. 

“Yes, Your Majesty. They are really happy there and have no problems, except one,” said Birbal. 

“What is that? I will see to it that their problem is solved immediately,” said Akbar. 

“My Lord, there is no barber in heaven. All your ancestors want you to do something about it,” said Birbal. “What do they want?” asked Akbar. 

“They want a barber to be sent to cut their hair and give them a shave,” said Birbal. 

“But whom can I send?” asked Akbar. 

Birbal said, “Your Majesty, your barber would be the best to send.” 

Akbar ordered the royal barber to be burnt with hay just as Birbal. 

The scared barber fell at Akbar’s feet crying, “Mercy, Your Majesty. Don’t burn me. I will die.” 

Birbal said, “No, you won’t die. See I have come back from heaven.” 

The barber said, “I don’t know how you came back but I will certainly be burnt to death. My Lord, I was forced to do this by Birbal’s enemies.” 

Akbar was very angry and said, “No one can force a person to do anything bad. I think you just did all this for money.” 

Akbar then punished the two courtiers and the barber. The whole court applauded Birbal for his clever thinking. 