
I have stolen the bag of gold coins and that was a wrong thing to do. You had stolen the money and that was wrong. Since you have confessed, I forgive you.” 

The servant ran to get the money and soon gave the bag of thousand gold coins to Birbal. Then Birbal gave five gold coins to the servant and said, “You can keep these coins for speaking the truth.” 

The servant fell at Birbal’s feet and said, “Thank you so much, My Lord. I promise never to steal again.” 

Birbal then said to the gardener, “Take your money. Be careful in the future.” The Empress tried to speak, but Akbar would not listen. You may, however, take with you, whatever is dear to you but leave my palace now.” 

The Empress was very upset and did not know what to do. Birbal said, “The Emperor said that you could take what was dear to you. Birbal told his plan to the Empress and went away. When the packing was done, she asked her maid to tell Akbar to come and meet her as she was going. The Empress said, “Don’t talk if you don’t want to, but have this juice.” 

Birbal had asked the Empress to put a sleeping pill in the juice. With the sleeping Emperor in the palanquin, the Empress left with her bodyguards for her father’s house. When they reached her father’s house, He was very surprised but glad to have them come to stay with him, Akbar was carried to a room and laid on a bed. Her father was worried to see the sleeping Akbar being carried to bed, but the Empress said, “Don’t worry, Father. Angrily, he shouted at his wife, who was standing nearby, “How did I come here?” The Empress said, “Don’t be angry, Your Majesty, but I was just obeying your orders.” 

Akbar said, “What do you mean?” 

His wife said, “When you asked me to leave the palace, you had said that I could take with me whatever was dear to me. This was Birbal’s clever thinking,” confessed the Empress. Akbar said, “Birbal!

Number of words in input file: 547
Number of words in output file: 354
Number of sentences in input file: 39
Number of sentences in output file: 17
Percentage of output words to input words: 64.72%
Percentage time saved: 35.28%
